blog post: What is Seraphis, and Why Should You Care? (#1867)
monero-project/monero-site: _posts/2021-10-06-what-is-seraphis.md

Ever since RingCT was introduced, transaction protocols have had 'hidden amounts' by adopting the Confidential Transactions technique (the CT in RingCT). Key images, however, have seen recent innovations.

[Triptych](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/018) is a fourth-generation privacy-focused transaction protocol (following the Bitcoin, CryptoNote, and then RingCT models) with a new key image construction that permits 'one-of-many proofs' (which behave the same as ring signatures) with significantly better performance for large reference sets (large numbers of decoys) compared to what is possible with CryptoNote/RingCT-style key images. Note that, while the Triptych paper doesn't make a distinction between a 'transaction protocol' and a 'transaction protocol abstraction', Triptych represents a new abstract model following after RingCT.

Seraphis is, similarly, a fourth-generation privacy-focused transaction protocol (abstraction). Also like Triptych, it defines a new key image construction that permits efficient one-of-many proofs. However, there are a number of notable differences between Triptych and Seraphis.

### Triptych vs. Seraphis

> - Triptych

Reviewer: Better change this to a header to avoid the nested list to go too deep.

    - Pros
        - If a cryptocurrency uses RingCT, it is less work to upgrade to Triptych than Seraphis.

>         - Compatible with CryptoNote user addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Compatible with CryptoNote user @addresses.
```

    - Cons
        - Multisig is [much harder](https://github.com/cypherstack/triptych-multisig) with Triptych-style key images than with either CryptoNote or Seraphis key images.

> - Seraphis: when thinking about a possible implementation...

Reviewer: Better change this to a header to avoid the nested list to go too deep.

    - Pros
        - Multisig can be simple, comparable to multisig with MLSAG/CLSAG.
        - 'Membership proof delegation' is possible without leaking users' private keys. This potentially allows the following:
            - Transaction chaining (required for full-featured atomic swaps).

>             - Offload membership proof construction to a third party, or a view-only wallet (possibly useful for spend-only hardware wallets where it is expensive/difficult to implement complex algorithms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Offload membership proof construction to a third party, or a view-only @wallet (possibly useful for spend-only hardware wallets where it is expensive/difficult to implement complex algorithms).
```

            - Ignore 10-block lock time when transacting with a **trusted party** (i.e. allow them to make your tx's membership proofs and submit the tx to the network on your behalf).
        - Flexible multi-tier address schemes. The following features can be designed into a Seraphis user address scheme (there are at least 7 design variations, half of which require 3-key addresses [a 50% increase in address length over current addresses]):

>             - View-only wallet that can see spent outputs.
>                 - Especially helpful for multisig and hardware wallets, since in RingCT and CryptoNote it is necessary to constantly 'export key images'.

Reviewer: Not needed nested bullet point.
```suggestion
        - View-only wallet that can see spent outputs. Especially helpful for multisig and hardware wallets, since in RingCT and CryptoNote it is necessary to constantly 'export key images'.
```

>             - View-only wallet that can see received outputs but not amounts (and optionally also see spent outputs but not amounts).
>                 - Useful for delegated chain scanning, where a third party or insecure machine scans for outputs, then sends them to a more secure 2nd tier view-only wallet (or spend wallet) that can read the amounts.

Reviewer: Not needed nested bullet point.

```suggestion
        - View-only wallet that can see received outputs but not amounts (and optionally also see spent outputs but not amounts). Useful for delegated chain scanning, where a third party or insecure machine scans for outputs, then sends them to a more secure 2nd tier view-only wallet (or spend wallet) that can read the amounts.
```

            - View-only wallet that can detect the Janus attack.
        - Modular core design. This will hopefully make it easier to upgrade different pieces of a Seraphis implementation as innovations appear (or maybe we will be stuck for the next 20 years... who knows?).
    - Cons

>         - If a cryptocurrency uses RingCT, it is more work to upgrade to Seraphis than Triptych.

Reviewer: We could be Monero specific here:
```suggestion
        - Since Monero uses RingCT, it is more work to upgrade to Seraphis than Triptych.
```

        - Not compatible with CryptoNote user addresses. If Seraphis is used to upgrade a cryptocurrency that has CryptoNote-style addresses, then users would have to replace all their public CryptoNote-style addresses with Seraphis-style addresses (they would not need new private keys or wallets).

### What about Lelantus-Spark?

[Lelantus-Spark](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1173) is a transaction protocol (but not an abstraction - like how Triptych is not an abstraction) very similar to Seraphis, with the same pros/cons relative to Triptych. It was developed independently from Seraphis, for the most part.

> Since they were developed at the same time, the question 'why Seraphis and not Lelantus-Spark?' can just as easily be stated 'why Lelantus-Spark and not Seraphis?' Practically speaking, the authors of Lelantus-Spark have focused their attention on design details appropriate for the Firo cryptocurrency, while my design recommendations for Seraphis (in the paper) have focused on details appropriate for a cryptocurrency that currently uses standard RingCT (like Monero or MobileCoin).

Reviewer: > Before anyone whines about my mention of MobileCoin, you should keep in mind I wrote the first draft of the Seraphis paper while an employee at MobileCoin.

In that case i would either remove the mention of MobileCoin entirely or i would add a clarification explaining why it's mentioned. Otherwise it looks out of place (without context there is no reason to mention MobileCoin an not other, more prominent, coins that use ringct)

        - View-only wallet that can see spent outputs. Especially helpful for multisig and hardware wallets, since in RingCT and CryptoNote it is necessary to constantly 'export key images'.
        - View-only wallet that can see received outputs but not amounts (and optionally also see spent outputs but not amounts). Useful for delegated chain scanning, where a third party or insecure machine scans for outputs, then sends them to a more secure 2nd tier view-only wallet (or spend wallet) that can read the amounts.
        - View-only wallet that can detect the Janus attack.
    - Modular core design. This will hopefully make it easier to upgrade different pieces of a Seraphis implementation as innovations appear (or maybe we will be stuck for the next 20 years... who knows?).
- Cons
    - Not compatible with CryptoNote user addresses. If Seraphis is used to upgrade a cryptocurrency that has CryptoNote-style addresses, then users would have to replace all their public CryptoNote-style addresses with Seraphis-style addresses (they would not need new private keys or wallets).

> ### What about Lelantus-Spark?

Reviewer 2: Generally, I'd like to see this section more fleshed out. I still have no meaningful idea why one over the other.

Author: Like I said, they are basically equivalent. There is nothing more to say, except - I already implemented a PoC of Seraphis so why would I make a whole new PoC for something with no functional differences?
